Summary:

    A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

Data sets provided:
    1. Song Dataset
        The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the 
        artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.
    2. Log Dataset
        The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate
        activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
 
 
The main goal of this project is to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis.

Project Steps:
1. Create the tables and the Model Schema
    you can check the model schema attached.

------------------------------------------|
                Songplays                 |
------------------------------------------|
songplay_id   |   Serial    |  Primary Key|
start time    |   timestamp |  Not Null   |
user_id       |   int       |  Not Null   |   
level         |   varchar   |             |
song_id       |   int       |  Not Null   |
artist_id     |   int       |  Not Null   |
session_id    |   int       |             |
location      |   varchar   |             |
user_agent    |   int       |             |
------------------------------------------|

------------------------------------------|
                   songs                  |
------------------------------------------|
song_id      |   int        |  Primary Key|
title        |   varchar    |             |
artist_id    |   varchar    |  Not Null   |   
year         |   int        |             |
duration     |   real       |             |
------------------------------------------|

------------------------------------------|
                  users                   |
------------------------------------------|
user_id      |   int        |  Primary Key|
first_name   |   varchar    |             |
last_name    |   varchar    |             |   
gender       |   varchar    |             |
level        |   varchar    |             |
------------------------------------------|

------------------------------------------|
                 artists                  |
------------------------------------------|
artist_id   |   int         |  Primary Key|
name        |   varchar     |             |
location    |   varchar     |             |   
latitude    |   numeric     |             |
longtiude   |   numeric     |             |
------------------------------------------|

------------------------------------------|
                  time                    |
------------------------------------------|
start_time  |   timestamp   |  Primary Key|
year        |   int         |             |
month       |   int         |             |   
week        |   int         |             |
day         |   int         |             |
hour        |   int         |             |
weekday     |   varchar     |             |
------------------------------------------|
on the sql_queries.py file the creation of the pervious tables had been written in variabled to be easy used in create_tables.py file.

The etl.ipynb notebook had been created to develop the ETL process for each table (extracting the .jason data and load them on the pervious tables)

The test.ipynb file had been created to test your queries and code in each milstone of the project. 

To Run the Project:

1. call create_tables.py in your Terminal
2. call etl.py in your terminal to extract the data and load them into the new tables. 

P.S At the end of each table section, or at the end of the notebook, run test.ipynb to confirm that records were successfully inserted into each table. Remember to rerun create_tables.py to reset your tables before each time you run this notebook.


